# echo

Experimental Python meta-circular evaluator. Inspired by the approach taken by
[Narcissus](https://github.com/mozilla/narcissus).

Implements a bytecode-level guest interpreter, reusing the host VM's front-end.
Note that the guest interpreter must be aware of the host VM's version, so it
can interpret bytecodes appropriately.

Implementation of builtin and functional constructs are the first priority for
implementation.

## Potential

By performing guest-interpreter evaluation via the host interpreter, we can:

* Remain fully compatible to CPython (e.g. extension
  capabilities), while
* Virtualize the language (e.g. for analysis/intercepting
  of control flow), and
* Potentially making the guest-language extensible in future
  work.

## Implementation Note

The implementation of echo is intimately related to the Python version it's
running on; e.g. if echo was last developed/updated for Python 3.7 and then it
is run on Python 3.10, there will be a lot of new bytecodes that it doesn't
know about. The implementation of echo must be updated for changes in CPython
versions since it implements the bytecode specification.

## Usage

The `echo.py` command line utility attempts to act like a substitute Python
driver that uses the guest interpreter instead of the host interpreter; e.g.

```
python3 echo.py /tmp/my_test.py
```

Ideally would match the results of direct invocation via the standard (host)
interpreter:

```
python3 /tmp/my_test.py
```

This is the property that echo attempts to build towards.

### Approach

Echo currently interprets host-Python (CPython) generated bytecodes, and thus
may be sensitive to variations in bytecodes between Python versions. The
versions actively being tested are reflected in the `.travis.yml` file.

## Testing

py.test is driven via a configuration file in the root of the project
directory; so a developer can simply run:

```
py.test-3
```

To run particular tests with the logging level raised:

```
py.test-3 -k kwarg --log-cli-level=DEBUG
```

### Type checking

Type checking was previously done via pytype but is switching to be mypy based.

### CPython bytecode tracing

```
python bin/cpython_tracer.py py_samples/simple_binops.py
```

### REPL

A very partial read-eval-print-loop is present for experimentation:

```
$ ./bin/echo_repl
>>>
```
